libbeat/docs/shared-path-config.asciidoc, before:

//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
//// This content is shared by all Elastic Beats. Make sure you keep the
//// descriptions here generic enough to work for all Beats that include
//// this file. When using cross references, make sure that the cross
//// references resolve correctly for any files that include this one.
//// Use the appropriate variables defined in the index.asciidoc file to
//// resolve Beat names: beatname_uc and beatname_lc.
//// Use the following include to pull this content into a doc file:
//// include::../../libbeat/docs/shared-path-config.asciidoc[]
//// Make sure this content appears below a level 2 heading.
//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

[[configuration-path]]
== Set up project paths

The `path` section of the +{beatname_lc}.yml+ config file contains configuration
options that define where the Beat looks for its files. For example, all Beats
look for the Elasticsearch template file in the configuration path, Filebeat and
Winlogbeat look for their registry files in the data path, and all Beats write
their log files in the logs path.

Please see the <<directory-layout>> section for more details.

Here is an example configuration:

[source,yaml]
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
path.home: /usr/share/beat
path.config: /etc/beat
path.data: /var/lib/beat
path.logs: /var/log/
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note that it is possible to override these options by using command line flags.

[float]
=== Configuration options

You can specify the following options in the `path` section of the +{beatname_lc}.yml+ config file:

[float]
==== `home`

The home path for the {beatname_uc} installation. This is the default base path for all
other path settings and for miscellaneous files that come with the distribution (for example, the
sample dashboards). If not set by a CLI flag or in the configuration file, the default
for the home path is the location of the {beatname_uc} binary.

Example:

[source,yaml]
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
path.home: /usr/share/beats
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[float]
==== `config`

The configuration path for the {beatname_uc} installation. This is the default base path
for configuration files, including the main YAML configuration file and the
Elasticsearch template file. If not set by a CLI flag or in the configuration file, the default for the
configuration path is the home path.

Example:

[source,yaml]
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
path.config: /usr/share/beats/config
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[float]
==== `data`

The data path for the {beatname_uc} installation. This is the default base path for all
the files in which {beatname_uc} needs to store its data. If not set by a CLI
flag or in the configuration file, the default for the data path is a `data`
subdirectory inside the home path.


Example:

[source,yaml]
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
path.data: /var/lib/beats
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[float]
==== `logs`

The logs path for a {beatname_uc} installation. This is the default location for the Beat's
log files. If not set by a CLI flag or in the configuration file, the default
for the logs path is a `logs` subdirectory inside the home path.

Example:

[source,yaml]
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
path.logs: /var/log/beats
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Commit message:

Use specific beat name's instead of 'the Beat'

libbeat/docs/shared-path-config.asciidoc, after:

//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
//// This content is shared by all Elastic Beats. Make sure you keep the
//// descriptions here generic enough to work for all Beats that include
//// this file. When using cross references, make sure that the cross
//// references resolve correctly for any files that include this one.
//// Use the appropriate variables defined in the index.asciidoc file to
//// resolve Beat names: beatname_uc and beatname_lc.
//// Use the following include to pull this content into a doc file:
//// include::../../libbeat/docs/shared-path-config.asciidoc[]
//// Make sure this content appears below a level 2 heading.
//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

[[configuration-path]]
== Set up project paths

The `path` section of the +{beatname_lc}.yml+ config file contains configuration
options that define where {beatname_lc} looks for its files. For example, {beatname_uc}
looks for the Elasticsearch template file in the configuration path and writes
log files in the logs path.
ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"=="filebeat" or "{beatname_lc}"=="winlogbeat"]
Filebeat and Winlogbeat look for their registry files in the data path.
endif::[]

Please see the <<directory-layout>> section for more details.

Here is an example configuration:

[source,yaml]
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
path.home: /usr/share/beat
path.config: /etc/beat
path.data: /var/lib/beat
path.logs: /var/log/
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note that it is possible to override these options by using command line flags.

[float]
=== Configuration options

You can specify the following options in the `path` section of the +{beatname_lc}.yml+ config file:

[float]
==== `home`

The home path for the {beatname_uc} installation. This is the default base path for all
other path settings and for miscellaneous files that come with the distribution (for example, the
sample dashboards). If not set by a CLI flag or in the configuration file, the default
for the home path is the location of the {beatname_uc} binary.

Example:

[source,yaml]
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
path.home: /usr/share/beats
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[float]
==== `config`

The configuration path for the {beatname_uc} installation. This is the default base path
for configuration files, including the main YAML configuration file and the
Elasticsearch template file. If not set by a CLI flag or in the configuration file, the default for the
configuration path is the home path.

Example:

[source,yaml]
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
path.config: /usr/share/beats/config
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[float]
==== `data`

The data path for the {beatname_uc} installation. This is the default base path for all
the files in which {beatname_uc} needs to store its data. If not set by a CLI
flag or in the configuration file, the default for the data path is a `data`
subdirectory inside the home path.


Example:

[source,yaml]
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
path.data: /var/lib/beats
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[float]
==== `logs`

The logs path for a {beatname_uc} installation. This is the default location for {beatname_uc}'s
log files. If not set by a CLI flag or in the configuration file, the default
for the logs path is a `logs` subdirectory inside the home path.

Example:

[source,yaml]
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
path.logs: /var/log/beats
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
