libbeat/docs/template-config.asciidoc, before:

[[configuration-template]]

== Load the Elasticsearch index template

The `setup.template` section of the +{beatname_lc}.yml+ config file specifies
the {elasticsearch}/indices-templates.html[index template] to use for setting
mappings in Elasticsearch. If template loading is enabled (the default),
{beatname_uc} loads the index template automatically after successfully
connecting to Elasticsearch.

ifndef::only-elasticsearch[]

NOTE: A connection to Elasticsearch is required to load the index template. If
the output is Logstash, you must <<load-template-manually,load the template
manually>>.

endif::[]

You can adjust the following settings to load your own template or overwrite an
existing one.

*`setup.template.enabled`*:: Set to false to disable template loading. If set this to false,
you must <<load-template-manually,load the template manually>>.

*`setup.template.name`*:: The name of the template. The default is
+{beatname_lc}+. The {beatname_uc} version is always appended to the given
name, so the final name is +{beatname_lc}-%\{[beat.version]\}+.

// Maintainers: a backslash character is required to escape curly braces and
// asterisks in inline code examples that contain asciidoc attributes. You'll
// note that a backslash does not appear before the asterisk
// in +{beatname_lc}-%\{[beat.version]\}-*+. This is intentional and formats
// the example as expected.

*`setup.template.pattern`*:: The template pattern to apply to the default index
settings. The default pattern is +{beatname_lc}-\*+. The {beatname_uc} version is always
included in the pattern, so the final pattern is
+{beatname_lc}-%\{[beat.version]\}-*+. The wildcard character `-*` is used to
match all daily indices.
+
Example:
+
["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
setup.template.name: "{beatname_lc}"
setup.template.pattern: "{beatname_lc}-*"
----------------------------------------------------------------------

*`setup.template.fields`*:: The path to the YAML file describing the fields. The default is +fields.yml+. If a
relative path is set, it is considered relative to the config path. See the <<directory-layout>>
section for details.

*`setup.template.overwrite`*:: A boolean that specifies whether to overwrite the existing template. The default
is false.

*`setup.template.settings`*:: A dictionary of settings to place into the `settings.index` dictionary of the
Elasticsearch template. For more details about the available Elasticsearch mapping options, please
see the Elasticsearch {elasticsearch}/mapping.html[mapping reference].
+
Example:
+
["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
setup.template.name: "{beatname_lc}"
setup.template.fields: "fields.yml"
setup.template.overwrite: false
setup.template.settings:
  index.number_of_shards: 1
  index.number_of_replicas: 1
----------------------------------------------------------------------

*`setup.template.settings._source`*:: A dictionary of settings for the `_source` field. For the available settings,
please see the Elasticsearch {elasticsearch}/mapping-source-field.html[reference].
+
Example:
+
["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
setup.template.name: "{beatname_lc}"
setup.template.fields: "fields.yml"
setup.template.overwrite: false
setup.template.settings:
  _source.enabled: false
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Commit message:

More beat_default_index_prefix.

libbeat/docs/template-config.asciidoc, after:

[[configuration-template]]

== Load the Elasticsearch index template

The `setup.template` section of the +{beatname_lc}.yml+ config file specifies
the {elasticsearch}/indices-templates.html[index template] to use for setting
mappings in Elasticsearch. If template loading is enabled (the default),
{beatname_uc} loads the index template automatically after successfully
connecting to Elasticsearch.

ifndef::only-elasticsearch[]

NOTE: A connection to Elasticsearch is required to load the index template. If
the output is Logstash, you must <<load-template-manually,load the template
manually>>.

endif::[]

You can adjust the following settings to load your own template or overwrite an
existing one.

*`setup.template.enabled`*:: Set to false to disable template loading. If set this to false,
you must <<load-template-manually,load the template manually>>.

*`setup.template.name`*:: The name of the template. The default is
+{beatname_lc}-*+. The {beatname_uc} version is always appended to the given
name, so the final name is +{beatname_lc}-%\{[beat.version]\}+.

// Maintainers: a backslash character is required to escape curly braces and
// asterisks in inline code examples that contain asciidoc attributes. You'll
// note that a backslash does not appear before the asterisk
// in +{beatname_lc}-%\{[beat.version]\}-*+. This is intentional and formats
// the example as expected.

*`setup.template.pattern`*:: The template pattern to apply to the default index
settings. The default pattern is +{beat_default_index_prefix}-\*+. The {beatname_uc} version is always
included in the pattern, so the final pattern is
+{beat_default_index_prefix}-%\{[beat.version]\}-*+. The wildcard character `-*` is used to
match all daily indices.
+
Example:
+
["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
setup.template.name: "{beatname_lc}"
setup.template.pattern: "{beat_default_index_prefix}-*"
----------------------------------------------------------------------

*`setup.template.fields`*:: The path to the YAML file describing the fields. The default is +fields.yml+. If a
relative path is set, it is considered relative to the config path. See the <<directory-layout>>
section for details.

*`setup.template.overwrite`*:: A boolean that specifies whether to overwrite the existing template. The default
is false.

*`setup.template.settings`*:: A dictionary of settings to place into the `settings.index` dictionary of the
Elasticsearch template. For more details about the available Elasticsearch mapping options, please
see the Elasticsearch {elasticsearch}/mapping.html[mapping reference].
+
Example:
+
["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
setup.template.name: "{beatname_lc}"
setup.template.fields: "fields.yml"
setup.template.overwrite: false
setup.template.settings:
  index.number_of_shards: 1
  index.number_of_replicas: 1
----------------------------------------------------------------------

*`setup.template.settings._source`*:: A dictionary of settings for the `_source` field. For the available settings,
please see the Elasticsearch {elasticsearch}/mapping-source-field.html[reference].
+
Example:
+
["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
setup.template.name: "{beatname_lc}"
setup.template.fields: "fields.yml"
setup.template.overwrite: false
setup.template.settings:
  _source.enabled: false
----------------------------------------------------------------------
